en: add doc for online-ddl-scheme (#58)
pingcap/docs-dm: en/online-ddl-scheme.md

online-ddl-scheme: "gh-ost"     # Only "gh-ost" and "pt" are currently supported.
target-database:                # Configuration of the downstream database instance.
  host: "192.168.0.1"
  port: 4000
  user: "root"
  password: ""                  # The dmctl encryption is needed when the password is not empty.
```

For all the configuration items and their usage, refer to [DM advanced task configuration file template](task-configuration-file-full.md#task-configuration-file-template-advanced).

## online-schema-change: gh-ost

When gh-ost implements online-schema-change, 3 types of tables are created:

- gho: used to apply DDLs. When the data replication catches up with the origin table, the origin table is replaced by renaming.
- ghc: used to store information that is related to online-schema-change.
- del: created by renaming the origin table.

In the process of replication, DM divides the above tables into 3 categories:

- ghostTable: \_\*\_gho
- trashTable: \_\*\_ghc, \_\*\_del
- realTable: the origin table that executes online-ddl.

The SQL statements mostly used by gh-ost and the corresponding operation of DM are as follows:

1. Create the `_ghc` table:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```

Author: There's no need for the `copyable` snippet. The author said these are just internal operations, and the user doesn't need to copy them.

        -- Replaced with:
        alter table test.test4 add column cl1 varchar(20) not null;
        ```

> **Note:**
>
> The specific SQL statements of gh-ost vary with the parameters used in the execution. This document only lists the major SQL statements. For more details, refer to the [gh-ost documentation](https://github.com/github/gh-ost#gh-ost).

## online-schema-change: pt

When pt-osc implements online-schema-change, 2 types of tables are created:

- `new`: used to apply DDL. When the data replication catches up with the origin table, the origin table is replaced by renaming.
- `old`: created by renaming the origin table.
- 3 kinds of Trigger: `pt_osc\_\*\_ins`, `pt_osc\_\*\_upd`, `pt_osc\_\*\_del`. In the process of pt_osc, the new data generated by the origin table is replicated to `new` by the Trigger.

In the process of replication, DM divides the above tables into 3 categories:

- ghostTable: `\_\*\_new`
- trashTable: `\_\*\_old`
- realTable: the origin table that executes online-ddl.

The SQL statements mostly used by pt-osc and the corresponding operation of DM are as follows:

1. Create the `_new` table:

> 

Author: ditto.

---
title: DM online-ddl-scheme
summary: This document introduces the online-ddl-scheme feature of DM.
category: reference
---

# DM online-ddl-scheme

## Overview

This document introduces the online-ddl-scheme feature of DM.

> DDL is a type of SQL statements which is bound to be used in database applications. For MySQL 5.6 and later versions, MySQL supports online-ddl, but there are limitations for usage. For example, to acquire the MDL lock, some DDLs still need to be copied. In production scenario, the table lock during DDL execution can block the reads or writes to the database to a certain extent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DDL statements are always used in the database applications. MySQL 5.6 and later versions support online-ddl, but there are limitations for usage. For example, to acquire the MDL lock, some DDLs still need to be copied. In production scenario, the table lock during DDL execution can block the reads or writes to the database to a certain extent.
```

By using gh-ost and pt-osc, DDLs can be executed on the MySQL database more gracefully, and the impact on reads and writes is reduced as much as possible.

TiDB is implemented based on the online asynchronous schema change algorithm of Google F1. It does not block reads and writes during the DDL execution. Therefore, the large amount of data and binlog events in the intermediate tables generated by gh-ost and pt-osc in the process of online-schema-change is not needed during the replication from MySQL to TiDB.

For Data Migration (DM), which serves as the replication tool from MySQL to TiDB, the online-ddl-scheme feature is to perform special processing on the above two online-schema-change tools (gh-ost and pt-osc). This way, the required DDL replication can be completed more rapidly.

> 

Author: 省略这句话是因为这篇 blog 没有英文版。

task-mode: all                  # The task mode. Can be set to `full`/`incremental`/`all`.
is-sharding: true               # Whether it is a task to merge shards.
meta-schema: "dm_meta"          # The downstream database that stores the `meta` information.
remove-meta: false              # Whether to remove the `meta` information (`checkpoint` and `onlineddl`) corresponding to the task name before starting the replication task.
enable-heartbeat: false         # Whether to enable the heartbeat feature.
online-ddl-scheme: "gh-ost"     # Only "gh-ost" and "pt" are currently supported.
target-database:                # Configuration of the downstream database instance.
  host: "192.168.0.1"
  port: 4000
  user: "root"
  password: ""                  # The password must be encrypted using dmctl if it is not empty.
```

For the advanced configuration and the description of each configuration parameter, refer to [DM advanced task configuration file template](task-configuration-file-full.md#task-configuration-file-template-advanced).

## online-schema-change: gh-ost

When gh-ost implements online-schema-change, 3 types of tables are created:

> - gho: used to apply DDLs. When the data replication catches up with the origin table, the origin table is replaced by renaming.

Reviewer: 需要确认一下"待数据同步追上 origin table 之后"是否指的是“待 gho 表的数据同步到与 origin table 信息一致之后”

Author: Updated.

- ghc: used to store information that is related to online-schema-change.
- del: created by renaming the origin table.

In the process of replication, DM divides the above tables into 3 categories:

> - ghostTable: \_\*\_gho

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ghostTable: `\_\*\_gho`
```

> - trashTable: \_\*\_ghc, \_\*\_del

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- trashTable: `\_\*\_ghc`, `\_\*\_del`
```

- realTable: the origin table that executes online-ddl.

The SQL statements mostly used by gh-ost and the corresponding operation of DM are as follows:

1. Create the `_ghc` table:

    ```sql
    Create /* gh-ost */ table `test`.`_test4_ghc` (
                            id bigint auto_increment,
                            last_update timestamp not null DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
                            hint varchar(64) charset ascii not null,
                            value varchar(4096) charset ascii not null,
                            primary key(id),
                            unique key hint_uidx(hint)
                    ) auto_increment=256 ;
    ```

    DM does not create the `_test4_ghc` table.

2. Create the `_gho` table:

    ```sql
    Create /* gh-ost */ table `test`.`_test4_gho` like `test`.`test4` ;
    ```

>     DM does not create the `_test4_gho` table. It deletes the `dm_meta.{task_name}\_onlineddl` record in the downstream according to the `server_id` of ghost_schema, ghost_table, and dm_worker, and clears the related information in memory.

Reviewer: 这里麻烦跟作者确认一下原文（“不执行 _test4_gho 的创建操作，根据 ghost_schema、ghost_table 以及 dm_worker 的 server_id 删除下游 dm_meta.{task_name}_onlineddl 的记录，清理内存中的相关信息。”）server_id 是否单独指的是 dm_worker 的 server_id，并不修饰 ghost_schema 和 ghost_table

Author: Thanks for pointing out! Already updated.

>     DM does not create the `_test4_gho` table. It deletes the `dm_meta.{task_name}\_onlineddl` record in the downstream according to `ghost_schema`, `ghost_table`, and the `server_id` of `dm_worker`, and clears the related information in memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    DM does not create the `_test4_gho` table. DM deletes the `dm_meta.{task_name}\_onlineddl` record in the downstream according to `ghost_schema`, `ghost_table`, and the `server_id` of `dm_worker`, and clears the related information in memory.
```

    ```
    DELETE FROM dm_meta.{task_name}_onlineddl WHERE id = {server_id} and ghost_schema = {ghost_schema} and ghost_table = {ghost_table};
    ```

3. Apply the DDL that needs to be executed in the `_gho` table:

    ```sql
    Alter /* gh-ost */ table `test`.`_test4_gho` add column cl1 varchar(20) not null ;
    ```

>     DM does not perform the DDL operation of `_test4_gho`. It records the DDL to be executed in `dm_meta.{task_name}\_onlineddl` and memory.

Author: 这一步的 DDL 没有被执行，而是放在 `dm_meta.{task_name}\_onlineddl` 以及内存中，在第 5 步时被读取出来。所以不是 `the executed DDL`。

      (select `id`, `date`, `account_id`, `conversion_price`, `ocpc_matched_conversions`, `ad_cost`, `cl2` from `test`.`test4` force index (`PRIMARY`)
        where (((`id` > _binary'1') or ((`id` = _binary'1'))) and ((`id` < _binary'2') or ((`id` = _binary'2')))) lock in share mode
      )   ;
    ```

    DM does not execute DML statements that are not for **realtable**.

5. After the replication is completed, both the origin table and `_gho` table are renamed, and the online DDL operation is completed:

    ```sql
    Rename /* gh-ost */ table `test`.`test4` to `test`.`_test4_del`, `test`.`_test4_gho` to `test`.`test4`;
    ```

    DM performs the following two operations:

    * DM splits rename into two SQL statements.

        ```sql
        rename test.test4 to test._test4_del;
        rename test._test4_gho to test.test4;
        ```
    
    * DM does not execute `rename to _test4_del`. When executing `rename ghost_table to origin table`, DM takes the following steps:
    
        - Read the DDL recorded in memory in Step 3
        - Replace `ghost_table` and `ghost_schema` with `origin_table` and its corresponding schema

>         - Execute the origin command

Author: 把 step 3 里的 DDL 进行 replace 之后再执行。Updated.

        ```sql
        alter table test._test4_gho add column cl1 varchar(20) not null;
        -- Replaced with:
        alter table test.test4 add column cl1 varchar(20) not null;
        ```

> **Note:**
>
> The specific SQL statements of gh-ost vary with the parameters used in the execution. This document only lists the major SQL statements. For more details, refer to the [gh-ost documentation](https://github.com/github/gh-ost#gh-ost).

## online-schema-change: pt

When pt-osc implements online-schema-change, 2 types of tables are created:

- `new`: used to apply DDL. When the data replication catches up with the origin table, the origin table is replaced by renaming.
- `old`: created by renaming the origin table.
- 3 kinds of Trigger: `pt_osc\_\*\_ins`, `pt_osc\_\*\_upd`, `pt_osc\_\*\_del`. In the process of pt_osc, the new data generated by the origin table is replicated to `new` by the Trigger.

In the process of replication, DM divides the above tables into 3 categories:

- ghostTable: `\_\*\_new`
- trashTable: `\_\*\_old`

> - realTable: the origin table that executes online-ddl.

Reviewer: 确认一下“执行的 online-ddl 的 origin table”是否指的是“执行 online-ddl 的 origin table”

Author: Confirmed. The English version is correct.

The SQL statements mostly used by pt-osc and the corresponding operation of DM are as follows:

1. Create the `_new` table:

    ```sql
    CREATE TABLE `test`.`_test4_new` ( id int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    date date DEFAULT NULL, account_id bigint(20) DEFAULT NULL, conversion_price decimal(20,3) DEFAULT NULL,  ocpc_matched_conversions bigint(20) DEFAULT NULL, ad_cost decimal(20,3) DEFAULT NULL,cl2 varchar(20) COLLATE utf8mb4_bin NOT NULL,cl1 varchar(20) COLLATE utf8mb4_bin NOT NULL,PRIMARY KEY (id) ) ENGINE=InnoDB AUTO_INCREMENT=3 DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8mb4 COLLATE=utf8mb4_bin ;   
    ```

    DM does not create the `_test4_new` table. DM deletes the `dm_meta.{task_name}\_onlineddl` record in the downstream according to `ghost_schema`, `ghost_table`, and the `server_id` of `dm_worker`, and clears the related information in memory.

    ```sql
    DELETE FROM dm_meta.{task_name}_onlineddl WHERE id = {server_id} and ghost_schema = {ghost_schema} and ghost_table = {ghost_table};
    ```

2. Execute DDL in the `_new` table:

    ```sql
    ALTER TABLE `test`.`_test4_new` add column c3 int;
    ``` 

>     DM does not perform the DDL operation of `_test4_new`. Instead, it records the DDL to be executed in `dm_meta.{task_name}\_onlineddl` and memory.

Reviewer: ditto

    ```

3. Create 3 Triggers used for data replication:

    ```sql
    CREATE TRIGGER `pt_osc_test_test4_del` AFTER DELETE ON `test`.`test4` ...... ;
    CREATE TRIGGER `pt_osc_test_test4_upd` AFTER UPDATE ON `test`.`test4` ...... ;
    CREATE TRIGGER `pt_osc_test_test4_ins` AFTER INSERT ON `test`.`test4` ...... ;
    ```

    DM does not execute Trigger operations that are not supported in TiDB.

4. Replicate the origin table data to the `_new` table:

    ```sql
    INSERT LOW_PRIORITY IGNORE INTO `test`.`_test4_new` (`id`, `date`, `account_id`, `conversion_price`, `ocpc_matched_conversions`, `ad_cost`, `cl2`, `cl1`) SELECT `id`, `date`, `account_id`, `conversion_price`, `ocpc_matched_conversions`, `ad_cost`, `cl2`, `cl1` FROM `test`.`test4` LOCK IN SHARE MODE /*pt-online-schema-change 3227 copy table*/
    ```

    DM does not execute the DML statements that are not for **realtable**.

5. After the data replication is completed, the origin table and `_new` table are renamed, and the online DDL operation is completed:

    ```sql
    RENAME TABLE `test`.`test4` TO `test`.`_test4_old`, `test`.`_test4_new` TO `test`.`test4`
    ```

    DM performs the following two operations:

>     * DM splits rename into two SQL statements:

Reviewer: ditto

        ```sql
         rename test.test4 to test._test4_old; 
         rename test._test4_new to test.test4;
         ```
    
    * DM does not execute `rename to _test4_old`. When executing `rename ghost_table to origin table`, DM takes the following steps:

        - Read the DDL recorded in memory in Step 2
        - Replace `ghost_table` and `ghost_schema` with `origin_table` and its corresponding schema

>         - Execute the origin command

Reviewer: ditto
